# The Legacy of Jimi Hendrix

Now although Mozart may be one of the first rockstars to trek the landscape and make the winds of change flow from his gift of music, there was another great, possibly one of the greatest of OUR time, and his name is Jimi Hendrix.

To realize the greatness of Jimi Hendrix we must first recognize one of his idols as a kid Elvis Presley. Elvis was a musician whom with a couple other notable figures crafted a style called rock n' roll that had roots in blues music.
At the time it was controversial, and even today it remains a controversial topic that perhaps Elvis Presley was "stealing" African American music and shouldn't be given recognition for his musical work.  Elvis Presley not only drew criticism from the African American community he also drew criticism from White people amongst himself who thought he was some how betraying his whiteness and playing black music to youthful audiences black and white alike during a time of protests for civil rights and oppression.  Though Elvis Presley never said he had any intentions but to spread his music and be a great preformer controversy remains.

Jimi Hendrix growing up wanted to be just like Elvis, rockin 'n rollin' spreading his own message and living a lush lifestyle with money and fame alike, I don't think Elvis' controversy ever truely occured to him.

Jimi Hendrix started playing guitar like Elvis did when he was 15, he went on to join court-ordered military as punishment for stealing a car when he was 17.  He was kicked out of the millitary for smoking pot on base and being caught masturbating by his seargants. His Commander once quoted "Jimi deserves to be playing music, not here".  His superiors could never get him away from his guitar.
 After being kicked out of the Military Jimi ended up in the chitlin circuit, which was the area of kentucky and tenessee where a vibrant blues and jazz scene was exploding at the rush of the fast changing times of the 60's.  Jimi tried joining Jazz bands, mostly African American but was often denied because the Jazz artists were snobby and required him to be able to read music.  When Jimi Hendrix broke out in 1967 playing "Rock n' Roll" he broke norms.  A black musician seemed to be playing a very electric style of guitar that revolutionzed the way the guitar was used.  Jimi Hendrix would use self-feedback to create the overdrive guitar sound we love today.  Jimi Hendrix once asked to play at a CREAM show, whom the top dog guitarist for them was Eric Clapton, when Jimi appeared on stage Eric Clapton was backstage quoted as saying to his manager "You didn't tell me he was fuckin' better than me!"
Eric Clapton though envious of this newcomer to the scene had nothing but respect for Jimi when he sadly died in 1970.  Jimi, like Elvis was criticised for playing as a black musician in a white music scene, the reverse of what Elvis did years ago.  

Though controversy remains, in the end i belive Elvis and Jimi would have the same motto when it came to their life: "Do what you like, even if others dont understand".
